---
creation date: 2024-02-18 10:02
tags:
  - ADR
  - template
  - GKE
  - kubernetes
  - "#secrets"
  - secret-management
  - dagster
template: "[[🏷 Templates/ADR template]]"
status: ✅ Accepted
homepage:
---
## 📜 Table of contents
---
```table-of-contents
```
## ✍️ Context
---
We want to use secrets in code locations so that we can interface with systems outside of GKE. For example, we want to send slack messages when a job fails or succeeds.

We need a structured approach to:
- Adding the secrets to the GKE namespace
- Referencing secrets in a code location
## 🤝 Decision
---
### Secrets added by the Terraform deployment
Some secrets are generated in the 'dagster-infra' Terraform deployment. These secrets are added as 'Opaque' Kubernetes secrets where appropriate. See example [here](https://github.com/JasperHG90/dagster-infra/blob/main/infra/secrets.tf#L22-L35).
### Adding secrets not generated by Terraform
To add a secret and make it available to code locations, we have created a [GitHub Actions pipeline](https://github.com/JasperHG90/dagster-infra/blob/main/.github/workflows/add_secrets.yml). A user can add secrets to the GKE deployment by adding them to the 'dagster-infra' [Secrets and variables](https://github.com/JasperHG90/dagster-infra/settings/secrets/actions) GitHub settings.

Secrets must be prefixed with "DAGSTER_SECRET", and will be added to the GKE 'dagster-prd' namespace as an 'Opaque' secret. The name of the kubernetes secret will be in lower-case, and underscores are replaced with hyphens.

For example:
`DAGSTER_SECRET_SLACK_BOT_OAUTH_TOKEN` --> `dagster-secret-slack-bot-oauth-token`

Notice that, when the secret is used in a code location, it should still be referred to using the name as defined in the GitHub secret settings. (see below for example).
### Using secrets in code locations
To use secrets in a code location in the 'dagster-dags' repository, a user must reference them in the helm 'values.yaml' file under "envSecrets". (see example [here](https://github.com/JasperHG90/dagster-infra/settings/secrets/actions)). The secrets can be referenced in a DAG using the "os" library:

```python
import os
os.environ["DAGSTER_SECRET_SLACK_BOT_OAUTH_TOKEN"]
```
## ☝️Consequences
---
- Users should not add secrets manually, but should add them using the GitHub Actions pipeline.
- Users don't have to add secrets manually. They can simply refer to the secrets they want and use the secrets in their own pipelines.
